# RVsensorNet
Replace the LED lights type display in a typical RV/Motorhome with a BT capable Nexus7 OLED tablet. Sensor data will come from an Arduino-like sensor network using NRF24L01 2.4Ghz wireless and HC05 BT modules. 

1. RVsensor data will be displayed on a tablet or smartphone running an app built from the free MIT App Inventor 2 platform. Android com patability has been confirmed and IOS is also supported but has not been confirmed. The display communicates with a single base station  via bluetooth, therefore WIFI or cell service are not required. Data will be displayed/updated while within a 20-50' range of the base station. 
2. A single ATMEGA microcontroller base station will collect and parse sensor data from multiple nodes. The base station will draw about 50 ma continuously from the 12v coach battery system and will receive node data in 32 byte payloads. A higher payload can be configured if necessary in later versions. Bases station to Node communication will be via 2.4Ghz serial wireless platform using Nordics NRF24L01+ hardware and will be one way, Node to Base Sation only. Two way commuincation to start/stop systems or change setpoints such as starting/stopping hot water heater, starting or stopping generator, opening or clsoing awning from the display, can be added if necessary in later versions. Base station receives data from Nodes via serial wireless and communicates to the display via bluetooth. The base station has the capability if necessary to collect certain sensor information. 
3. Nodes will collect data from multiple sensors and will be co-located as near as possible to the sensoras practical to minimize wiring runs and to make service access easy. Nodes will be battery powered from rechargeable (lithium or NiMhd) batteries mounted on the Node itself to minimize coach battery load and wiring. Batteries should last a minimum of 3 months, ideally 6 months or more. A typical system will contain 3 or 4 Nodes depending on what sensor data is required. Nodes will transmit their NODE ID as well as their battery voltage level together with their sensor data payload at 10 second intervals to the base station. Nodes are configured to retry sending their payload if it's not successfully received by the base station. Nodes will enter deep sleep mode and draw <10 microamperes before waking up to read sensor data and send data to the base station @ 10 seconds. 
4. Sensors will be hardwired to the various nodes based on parameters of interest and can include things like: Coach and Chassis battery voltage, Solar Panel Charge voltage and current, Indoor and Outdoor RH and Temp, Hot Water Heater Temp, Refrigerator Temp, Black, Grey and Fresh water tank levels, Indoor Air Quality (eCO2/eVOC). Other sensors may be developed and added in future versions. Sensors will be low power and may be powered by the Node microcontroller if possible. Sensors should be located as close as possible to their respective Nodes.
